Expand section on data objects (#3461)
JetBrains/kotlin-web-site: docs/topics/object-declarations.md

}
```

Just like [data classes](data-classes.md), you can mark an `object` declaration with the `data` modifier. This instructs the compiler to generate a number of functions for your object:

* `toString()` returning the name of the data object
* `equals()`/`hashCode()` pair

Note that you can't provide a custom `equals` or `hashCode` implementation for a `data object`.

The `toString()` function of a data object returns the name of the object:
```kotlin
data object MyDataObject {
    val x: Int = 3
}

fun main() {
    println(MyDataObject) // MyDataObject
}
```

The `equals()` function for a `data object` ensures that all objects that have the type of your `data object` are considered equal.

> In most cases, you will only have a single instance of your data object at runtime (after all, a `data object` declares a singleton).

Reviewer: "The `hashCode()` function is implemented to be consistent with `equals()`, so that all instances of a certain data object class will have the same hash code."

Author: I've expanded the paragraph below the code sample. Do you want the `hashCode` function mentioned here, instead?

> However, in the edge case where another object of the same type is generated at runtime (e.g. due to reflection or when using a serialization library), this ensures that the objects are treated as being equal. 

Reviewer: It's probably worth mentioning that Kotlin reflection API doesn't permit instantiation of object classes, so you're safe here. It can be only achieved via platform reflection, e.g. `java.lang.reflction.*` API.  The same should be true for serialization libraries as well.

> > Make sure to only compare `data objects` structurally (i.e. using the `==` operator), never by reference (the `===` operator).

Reviewer: I'd expand this a little, e.g. "To avoid the pitfalls of having more than one instance of a data object class, make sure to only compare `data objects` structurally (i.e. using the `==` operator), never by reference (the `===` operator), similarly to data classes."

Author: I've expanded the warning. I'm not sure about the "data object class" term, so take a look and see if the new phrasing works for you :)

{type="warning"}

```kotlin
import java.lang.reflect.Constructor

data object MySingleton

fun main() {

>     val fromSerializationLibrary = createInstanceViaReflection()

Reviewer: Via reflection or serialization? These are different things, even though a serialization library may use reflection. I'd maybe give the variable a humorist name, such as `evilTwin` or `dopplelganger`, to make it clear that it's an exceptional thing to occur.

Author: changed to `evilTwin`, good idea!

    println(MySingleton) // MySingleton
    println(fromSerializationLibrary) // MySingleton

    // Even when a library forcefully creates a second instance of MySingleton, its `equals` method returns true:
    println(MySingleton == fromSerializationLibrary) // true

    // Do not compare data objects via ===.
    println(MySingleton === fromSerializationLibrary) // false
}

fun createInstanceViaReflection(): MySingleton {
    // Creates a new MySingleton instance "by force" (i.e. reflection)
    // Don't do this yourself!
    return (MySingleton.javaClass.declaredConstructors[0].apply { isAccessible = true } as Constructor<MySingleton>).newInstance()
}
```

> The automatically generated `hashCode` implementation accompanies the semantics of the `equals()` function.

Reviewer: "..., so that all instances of a certain data object class will have the same hash code."

}
```

Just like [data classes](data-classes.md), you can mark an `object` declaration with the `data` modifier. This instructs the compiler to generate a number of functions for your object:

* `toString()` returning the name of the data object
* `equals()`/`hashCode()` pair

> Note that you can't provide a custom `equals` or `hashCode` implementation for a `data object`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  > You can't provide a custom `equals` or `hashCode` implementation for a `data object`.
  >
  {type="note}
```

The `toString()` function of a data object returns the name of the object:
```kotlin
data object MyDataObject {
    val x: Int = 3
}

fun main() {
    println(MyDataObject) // MyDataObject
}
```

The `equals()` function for a `data object` ensures that all objects that have the type of your `data object` are considered equal.
In most cases, you will only have a single instance of your data object at runtime (after all, a `data object` declares a singleton).

> However, in the edge case where another object of the same type is generated at runtime (e.g. via platform reflection through `java.lang.reflect`, or by using a JVM serialization library that uses this API under the hood), this ensures that the objects are treated as being equal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, in the edge case where another object of the same type is generated at runtime (for example, by using platform reflection with `java.lang.reflect` or a JVM serialization library that uses this API under the hood), this ensures that the objects are treated as being equal.
```

> > Make sure to only compare `data objects` structurally (i.e. using the `==` operator), never by reference (the `===` operator). This helps you avoid pitfalls when more than once instance of a data object exists at runtime.

Author: I've added back the word "using" because otherwise I don't think grammatically these work (you're using the operator to achieve the comparison). Other than that, agreed, that's a better phrasing!

{type="warning"}

```kotlin
import java.lang.reflect.Constructor

data object MySingleton

fun main() {
    val evilTwin = createInstanceViaReflection()

    println(MySingleton) // MySingleton
    println(evilTwin) // MySingleton

    // Even when a library forcefully creates a second instance of MySingleton, its `equals` method returns true:
    println(MySingleton == evilTwin) // true

    // Do not compare data objects via ===.
    println(MySingleton === evilTwin) // false
}

fun createInstanceViaReflection(): MySingleton {
    // Kotlin reflection does not permit the instantiation of data objects.
    // This creates a new MySingleton instance "by force" (i.e. Java platform reflection)
    // Don't do this yourself!
    return (MySingleton.javaClass.declaredConstructors[0].apply { isAccessible = true } as Constructor<MySingleton>).newInstance()
}
```

The generated `hashCode()` function has behavior that is consistent with the `equals()` function, so that all runtime instances of a `data object` have the same hash code.

> #### No copy and componentN functions

Reviewer 2: I'd suggest "Differences between data objects and data classes", seems more descriptive. WDYT?

Author: While we don't do a full comparison in the paragraph, I think "differences" is also fine!

While `data object` and `data class` declarations are often used together and have some similarities, there are some functions that are not generated for a `data object`:

> - No `copy()` function: Because a `data object` declaration is intended to be used as singleton objects, no `copy()` function is generated. The singleton pattern restricts the instantiation of a class to one, single instance, which would be violated by allowing copies of the instance to be created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* No `copy()` function. Because a `data object` declaration is intended to be used as singleton objects, no `copy()` function is generated. The singleton pattern restricts the instantiation of a class to a single instance, which would be violated by allowing copies of the instance to be created.
```

> - No `componentN()` function: unlike a `data class`, a `data object` does not have any data properties. Since attempting to destructure such an object without data properties would not make sense, no `componentN()` functions are generated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* No `componentN()` function. Unlike a `data class`, a `data object` does not have any data properties. Since attempting to destructure such an object without data properties would not make sense, no `componentN()` functions are generated.
```

> #### Use cases for data objects

Reviewer 2: Since it's just one use case for now, maybe we can use "Sealed hierarchies" header?

`data object` declarations are a particularly good fit for sealed hierarchies, like [sealed classes or sealed interfaces](sealed-classes.md), since they allow you to maintain symmetry with any data classes you might have defined alongside the object:

```kotlin
sealed interface ReadResult
data class Number(val number: Int) : ReadResult
data class Text(val text: String) : ReadResult
data object EndOfFile : ReadResult

fun printReadResult(r: ReadResult) {

>   when(r) {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    when(r) {
```

    is Number -> println("Num(${r.number}")

>     is Text -> println("Txt(${r.text}")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        is Text -> println("Txt(${r.text}")
```

>     is EndOfFile -> println("EOF")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        is EndOfFile -> println("EOF")
```

>   }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    }
```

}

fun main() {

>   printReadResult(EndOfFile) // EOF

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    printReadResult(EndOfFile) // EOF
```

}
```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

Author: Seems two of these newline changes were conflicting after applying them in order. If you still need changes here, do take a look :)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
